# Pet cARe: Mobile AR-based Animal Care Simulator

## Brief Rationale
The addition of pets has played a big role to Filipino families' life for many years
(Luayon et al., 2019). The Philippines accounted for the most pet-related Google searches of any country in Southeast Asia with 7 million searches, according to e-commerce company i-Price Group, which found that there has been an 89% increase in pet ownership interest across Southeast Asia with over 12.9 million searches related to pets (Nhất Duy, 2021). Moreover, this popularity may also lead to an increase in people’s desire for pet ownership. This possible rise should be partnered with caution and the right information about what it takes to raise a pet. Looking out for these owned animals must be ensured for a variety of reasons. Irresponsible pet ownership has been linked with waste problems, free-roaming animals, health problems, and rabies in the Philippines—all of which pose a serious risk to the community (A Survey of Attitudes toward Responsible Pet Ownership. - PMC, n.d.; Remedios D. San Jose, 2020).

It is important to stress out the impact of proper pet care education not just on human conditions but on the animals’ lives and welfare as well. Many abandoned and lost dogs also wind up in shelters as a result of poor management. While some are returned to their original homes or reunited with their owners, a significant number are taken out through euthanasia due to behavioral issues or just because they are unwanted (The Philippines Animal Welfare Society, 2022). These problems frequently result from poor management and lack of education and awareness on the part of the pet owners (Rohlf et al., 2010). Providing the efficient knowledge and information even before pet acquisition is an essential move to prepare aspiring pet owners/lovers in the nurturing of a companion animal, whether or not raising a domesticated animal is for them, as well as to create a safe space for future pets to grow in. With this in mind, a system will be proposed to look into the potential of a virtual animal for pet care education using AR-based simulations.

## Objectives
This study aims to examine a Mobile AR-based pet care simulator that allows users to experience caring for animals in a virtual environment using mobile devices. This research also aims to understand how the system will be developed so that it can simulate real-world pet raising scenarios, provide knowledge and information on responsible pet ownership, and reflect real-life animal behavior and activities.
